A File Management system is a DBMS that allows access to single files or tables at a time. 
In a File System, data is directly stored in a set of files. It contains flat files that have no relation to 
other files (when only one table is stored in a single file, 
then this file is known as flat file). File System manages data using files in the hard disk. 
Users are allowed to create, delete, and update the files according to their requirements. 
Let us consider the example of a file-based University Management System. Data of students 
is available to their respective Departments, Academics Section, Result Section, Accounts Section, 
Hostel Office, etc. Some of the data is common for all sections like Roll No, Name, Father Name, 
Address and Phone number of students but some data is available to a particular section only like 
Hostel allotment number which is a part of hostel office. Let us discuss the issues with this system:
Redundancy of data: Data is said to be redundant if same data is copied at many places. 
If a student wants to change a Phone number, he has to get it updated at various sections. 
Similarly, old records must be deleted from all sections representing that student.
Inconsistency of Data: Data is said to be inconsistent 
if multiple copies of the same data do not match with each other. 
If a Phone number is different in the Accounts Section and Academics Section,
 it will be inconsistent. Inconsistency may be because of typing errors or not updating all copies of same data.
Difficult Data Access: A user should know the exact location of the file to access data, 
so the process is very cumbersome and tedious. If a user wants to search student hostel allotment number of a student from 10000 unsorted students’ records, how difficult it can be.
Unauthorized Access: File System may lead to unauthorized access to data. 
If a student gets access to file having his marks, he can change it in unauthorized way.
No Concurrent Access: The access of same data by multiple users at same time is known as concurrency. 
File system does not allow concurrency as data can be accessed by only one user at a time.
No Backup and Recovery: File system does not incorporate any backup 
and recovery of data if a file is lost or corrupted.

These are the main reasons which made a shift from file system to Relational DBMS.